REPLACE W/ RELEVANT INFORMATION

TITLE: YYYY-MM-DD-TITLE.MD

---
layout: post
title: "2020 07 04 full meeting"
categories: speeches
---

7-14-20 Board of Aldermen
Sun, 6/6 8:27PM • 2:07:43
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
alderman, bill, health department, board, minorities, concerns, president, minority contractors, ordinance, people, city, louis, woman, workers, present, motion, committee, contractors, question, 24th
SPEAKERS
Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24, Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1, Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6, Sharita Rogers, Clerk, Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3, Carol Howard, Alderwoman ward 14, Heather Navarro, Alderwoman ward 28, Cara Spencer, Alderwoman ward 20

00:04
The board will now come to order Madam Clerk, please call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  00:09
The woman's eyes on one a middleboro. alderman Bosley. President odd woman Evans. Present the woman Hubbert resident the woman in Grazia present alderman color. Here are the woman rise. President Obama president the woman the woman grass the woman Murphy here the woman Howard present the woman grain president outnumbered president alderman rowdy arguments I present the woman Davis president the woman Spencer. alderman Mohamad here alderman boy brazza automatable Quadro pro president. alderman Ryan. President alderman call the woman Clark Hubbard hear boy, present the woman Navarro, President. President read here are the woman worn out the women grass? Err. alderman rowdy present are the woman Spencer, present 28 pressing you have quorum.

02:42
quorum being present. We will begin today with prayer. Given all honor to God, Almighty God source of all authority, we humbly ask guns in our deliberation, wisdom and our conclusions. Amen. dispense with line item three, and unboxing monagas index in a introduction of honored guests, alderman from the 23rd. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. As always, I'd like to have my friend Greg Meyer. Has my special guest. Welcome, Greg.

03:21
Any further introductions any further introductions? be further introductions. All the men from the alderman from the 10th like to wrap this up. Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Board. Today is July 14. On this day in 1983. The Mario Brothers game was released by released by Nintendo in 1969. The movie Easy Rider came out but more importantly this is two holidays in

03:47
one it's Macaroni and Cheese Day and national new days so you can have a nude noodle today. Enjoy yourself. Thank you. All right, thank you all approve of the minutes.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  04:00
Approval of the minutes dated July 10 2020.

04:05
alderman from the 22nd you recognize on approval of the minutes Mr. President, members of board I Move for approval the minutes dated July the 10th 2020 daghan from 22nd second ball from 10th discussion, roll call. Madam Clerk please call the roll

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  04:26
out the woman's eyes add one in the world ultimate Bosley. Odd woman ever present and there's no he after my name in Wunderland. I'm sorry when you vote in present President alderman Hubbert. Aye are the woman in Grazia. Aye alderman. alderman rise. alderman Gunther out alderman Vollmer. Odd one and mourn the woman grass. i. i i'm sorry was that morning said I. Yes, thank you are the woman grass? I on one Murphy out a woman Howard and a woman green Aye alderman Oldenburg.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  06:09
All right,

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  06:11
alderman rowdy. Aye. All right. Oh, the woman Davis. I owe the woman Spencer. alderman Mohamad alderman boy Aye all the mobile Coro alderman the ryan alderman calm the woman the woman boy, I owe the woman the waro. President re are the woman's eyes are the way my wife and I are the women Spencer. alderman Muhammad 24 volts and three present.

07:48
I would like to change my present vote to I am sorry. Thank you. Madam Clerk, please make note of that. All the one from the fourth. Oh should be recorded as an i

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  08:02
25. And to present

08:07
I wrote this thing, the most common from 22nd and adopted the minutes of July 10 2020. Porter city officials

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  08:20
were appointed city officials can be found in a B and C of the agenda and has been placed in the alderman arguments mailboxes

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  08:27
are the ones from the first hand up. I wanted to ask about the report of the city official about the mayor's report B if that's appropriate when we get to that. We are we're there right now. So please. Okay. So I am trying to understand more bill number 52 was disapproved and vetoed by the mayor because of which letter from Julian bush? No. No. And I got a couple of them this week.

09:06
Yeah. Madam Clerk, or Mr. Clark, is is the letter that the mayor references in the report of the Office of Mayor from the city councilor Julian bush. Is that mayor is that letter on the DRI? related to board bill number 52.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  09:31
Is Mr. President. Alright, I'm sorry, I didn't see that. Okay, I'll go back and read. It's under folder communications. Okay, I'm sorry. Okay. Thank you. I'll read it.

09:45
Thank you. We'll dispense with line item seven. Would anyone like take any bills off of any of our informal counters will they want to like take any bills off of any of our informal counters dispense the line items. One more time nobody wants to. We'll dispense with line items eight through 10. first read the board bills

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  10:21
already on 97 sponsored by odd woman and Gaussian. an ordinance relating to the city of St. Louis responds to people who are unhappy living on public property and setting standards and procedures for remedying unsafety unsafe conditions and protecting the rights and property of unhoused individuals, including a severability clause and an emergency clause. That is the extent of first reading the board bill referencing committee to the legislation committee board Bill 96 that is the extent of references. Secondly, following boy Bo was recorded out of the streets committee with a do pass recommendation for Bill 91 sponsored by alderwoman Hubbard and ordinance recommended by the Board of Public Service to conditionally vacate above surface, surface and subsurface rights for vehicle equestrian and pedestrian travel in Montgomery from Glasgow ease relief feet to a point previously vacated by ordinance 66616 and the 15 foot wide north south alley and city block 1897 beginning at my row, I'm sorry Montgomery and extended 118 point six seven feet to a point previously vacated by ordinance 66616 and the city of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described in accordance with Georgia Doherty and then conformity with article one, four of Article 21 of the charter and imposing certain conditions on such vacation. So far one board that was reported out of legislation committee with a do pass recommendation board Bill 77, as amended. plans about alderman Muhammad and alderman record wrote an ordinance submitted to the qualified voters of the city of St. Louis I proposed amendment to the Charter of the city of St. Louis to maintain a Board of Aldermen as a body of 28 alderman representing 28 wards, and preventing its reduction beginning December 31 2020, into a body of 14 alderman representing 1414 wards, as called for under Article One, section three of the city of St. Louis charter provided for an election to be held for voting on the proposed amendment and the manner for the voting and for the publication, certification deposit and reporting of this ordinance containing that emergency clause. The following borbet was reported out of public safety with a due pass recommendation for Bill 95, sponsored by alderwoman rice and the following are the persons Muhammad tied the ryan Bosley Spencer and grassier Martin green Gunther and pork covered an ordinance setting forth regulations for the use of surveillance technology by the city of St. Louis requirements surveillance technology, usage rules, regulations, specific technologies and guidelines to be established and approved by the Board of Aldermen before any such surveillance technology may be used and plans may be put into practice and contain the severability clause and an emergency clause. The following board bill was reported out of health and human services with a do pass recommendation for Bill 27, as amended, sponsored by all the woman to grassier a woman grain the woman Clark covered out a woman rise out of a woman's fencer and out a woman middle road and ordinance requiring third party food delivery services and serve food establishments to display City Health Department performance and risk based inspection letter grades on the platforms used for taking online online orders and prohibiting third party food delivery services from imposing requirements regarding purchase prices covered establishments may charge for orders of food and beverages or goods and capping fees charge food establishment by third party food delivery services and requiring third party food delivery services to obtain a business license requiring third party delivery services to disclose Commission's charge food establishments by the third party food delivery service and requiring third party food delivery services and food establishment to disclose gratuity policies for delivery workers and contain an emergency clause and a severability clause that is extent A second way to record a standing committee.

14:37
We'll dispense with line item 14 from clerk please. Board Bill 44 from the perfection Consent Calendar at the bottom of the regular perfection count.

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  14:54
Mr. President? Yes. Am I okay to be recognized? I was hoping to Make a motion to move to suspend the rules for board Bill 27, as amended, moving it to the perfection calendar.

15:12
Again, I have not recognized there for the motion yet so you can hold on second set for Bill 27. As

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  15:23
That's correct.

15:25
You'd like to move that from the second reading to the regular to the regular perfection calendar.

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  15:33
I would recognize you on the motion. Thank you Mr. President. I move that we suspend the rules to move for Bill 27 as amended to the perfection calendar. It's been moved by all the woman from the six I'm taking a second on that was the second again. Other women green,

16:01
all along from 15 blue, but all one from the six second but all the one from the 15th that we spend that was for purposes of moving for Bill 27 as amended to the regular perfection calendar. Please call

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  16:16
out a woman's eyes are the one with Middlebrook aye. alderman Bosley. Odd woman Evan aye. The woman Hubbert. The woman the Gaussian I have my folder. I have the woman rise. I automate Gunther automation Vollmer the woman worn out a woman grass. Aye. out a woman Murphy. Are the women Howard high. Are the women green? Aye. alderman Oldenburg. Alright. alderman roti. All right. The woman Davis. I the woman Spencer. alderman mahammad alderman boy. alderman Quadro. alderman the lion. Aye. I'll do my call. President on the one o'clock, Robert. Aye. All the way my boy. I the woman Navarro. Hi, President rate the woman sighs

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  18:29
Oh, I'm sorry. I said I knew that. I'm sorry.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  18:33
All the woman Hubbard I the one on one. All right. On one and Murphy are the woman Spencer? Aye. alderman Mohamad. 25 aye volts and one present.

19:04
I wrote you saying most of all one from the six and for Bill 27 as amended to regular perfection count. Please, please. Board Bill 27 as amended at the end of the regular perfection. So notice, all the ones from the 27th I'm sorry, I didn't have a question. I'm sorry. I missed president. Okay. All right. Or perfection consent.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  19:43
We have none. For bills for perfection. Would it be Oh 44 sponsored by alderman Ryan and ordinance for regulation and control of air pollution within the city of St. Louis repealing ordinance 68137 approved October 30. 2008 ortner 70670607 approved July 19 2017, and ordinance 71146 approved may 7 2020. Pertaining to the regulation and control of air pollution and enact and in lieu of a new ordinance for the purposes of clarity pertaining to the same subject matter and contain the severability clause, a penalty clause and an emergency clause.

20:27
Almost from the 24th. We recognize on professional board Bill 44. Thank you, Mr. President.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  20:35
I move that we perfect board Bill 44.

20:40
From the 24th and attain a second on that motion. Second, second. Seconded by Donna, one from the 14th, I believe and number of others. From 24th, please proceed.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  20:58
Thank you, Mr. President. This board bill is some it's virtually the same board bill is what came before us last session, I believe it was maybe 210. It was the air quality bill that came before us last session, where Miss Teresa page came and gave her testimony, both in committee, and then before the full board. After that, board Bill had gone into effect and been codified. Janine aragvi from the health department here raised a couple of issues with the bill that we knew, based on a couple of procedural matters that we didn't have an opportunity to get fixed. At that time, there was some struck through language that This removes, and there was an issue with the fee schedule being different than the the bill change the fee structure from the city's website and from what St. Louis County's is. And so this brings that bill back into or excuse me, this brings that fee structure back into parity with the city website. And with the county, this essentially is just cleaning up. But a bill that's already passed, this is essentially just a ministerial act at this point, there's there's no significant change in language. And this is something that Miss aragvi from the health department requested that we get through before we go on break, in order to ensure that the health department can have good air quality standards. sooner rather than later. So I would, I would ask if anyone has any changes to it, that we we discussed those after the break so that we can get this through so that the health department can operate under a meaningful health code during our break. And with that, I'm happy to yield any questions or anything like that. A woman from the first

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  23:29
Thank you, Mr. President, and members of the board, I asked for this board bill to be taken off of perfection Consent Calendar, because I have been over the years raising a lot of heck about minority contractors who don't get to be included in a lot of our contracts. And sometimes we make rules and regulations that adversely affect them. And so when I was the chair of public safety, I remember it came before me. JOHN Triplett, The former South Florida woman's father came before me because we had a rule about 14, that air conditioners could be so large and that they could still be broken up and the minority contractors got to do the smaller air conditioners. Well, they wanted a rule that changed everything. And it was for the unions, and it was good for the unions, but it was bad for the minority contractors. This is what I got from some minority contractors who are in demolition, saying that the rule changes are adversely affecting them. And also that the calls from the state senators about the same thing. I will tell you, I haven't had time to go into the weeds and read, but I was wondering if the autumn men from the 24th ield. Absolutely. Please. Oh, man, have you had any chance to talk with any minority contractors? Because I told them, and I tell you, they just called me these last few days. I told him that you were very reasonable and that you would probably welcome a conversation with them. If it was something that was unintended consequence of having an adverse effect on minority contractors. So have you talked to any of minority contractors or associations or anything to see how this might impact them?

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  25:12
So I've spoken with some folks in the committee hearing on this, as well as with excuse me, the older woman from the 26th brought a few of these concerns up on this board bill, is that that same language that the minority contractors have raised an issue with, was in the board bill that passed unanimously, four months ago. So what this current board bill pretends to do is to just clean up the language. This is a workers protection that was put in place to stop the rigging of the system, and to ensure higher air quality throughout the city of St. Louis, and to ensure that the workers themselves are the ones who get the certificates rather than the employer so that they have the freedom to move from place to place. So this is ultimately a a workers rights bill. I know that they had raised some issues regarding the apprenticeship programs. So I looked into that quite a bit to make sure that this wasn't going to put a hurdle that just couldn't, couldn't be overcome by folks. And in return, I got 37 pages of documents of non union shops that have Department of Labor, registered apprenticeship programs, including an apprenticeship program here, just over in Fenton. Again, so there are apprenticeship programs that are not union. So this wouldn't force anyone to, to go union if they did not want to. And again, this is this is a bill that everyone on this board, minus the alderman from the fourth and the older woman from the 12th voted for we pass this unanimously. And ultimately, I, this this bill wasn't to seek to relitigate the workers rights issues, it was simply to clean up some stuff at the request of Miss aragvi from the health department.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  28:05
So I appreciate that. I remember voting for this, because I remember you said you will have to come back and clean up some language. But I had not been contacted by minority contractors and more than one and particularly one, there's one young lady that I have watched grow. And she is very, very worried. It's a black female. And she's very worried about this. And so I have to always listen, because sometimes I don't know how something affects somebody else. And I think I know what, and some other people are pushing it. And we're saying, Oh, yeah, that'll be fine. I know I there's some problems with our military bill that was passed, and it has had an undue effect, or harshly on African Americans under the way it was set up. And so when I was the chair of public employees, I actually had a chance to converse with our personnel director. And he said, Oh, yeah, that's really hard and black people. So I don't think it was written to hurt black people. But is the the numbers are doing that. So sometimes when we pass legislation, that's why I talk about unintended consequences. Sometimes people need for that to be the consequence. But other times, I don't think that it means to be. So when they reached out to me, to me, it is my duty to bring this up. And I need to further investigate. So I right now cannot support the bill. I'm not opposed to what I want us to have clean air and I want us to have good laws, but I need to do my due diligence, which I have not had the time to do. So I will be voting present on this. And then I will be meeting with them later today. In hopes of trying to get a better understanding of what the problem is okay? Because if it is going to be something that hurt me, I know what the contract is. I cannot support that. Unless it's something that's gonna blow up our community.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  29:53
I can assure you that there was no intent to harm any minority time. And if if we get through this process, and then we do see that there's a major unintended consequence, I will certainly work with you to remedy that situation, keeping the spirit of this bill in mind.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  30:16
Okay. I have no further questions, Mr. President. Yes. Okay, and I'm overstepping a little bit, we need to put another board bill on the protection calendars alderwoman. Davis system. So I want to, before you get off of perfection, I need to request that and make sure she's okay with that. So we can send it back to our committee, it was a little problem with board Bill 64. And I just wanted to add it to the end of the agenda, if she doesn't have a problem with that so we can perfect it properly and come back to the Rules Committee. We didn't close it because of a problem. So that's why I wanted to see if she has a problem with it. Okay, but I'm just trying to get it perfected. So we can put it back in the committee. It was missing some attachments. Okay. But it's it's have attachments and everything. So if we can we perfect it, it can come right back to rules tomorrow. All right, we'll just, we'll just offer the third reading. Okay, and can we put it on the perfection so we can perfect it and have it right before us? It was it was already perfected. So we would have to have the way that it needs to be. So I'm trying to say there was a problem. So we could, and it's kind of overstepping my boundaries a little bit, but it was a problem. If we bring it back out here and put it on them with perfection calendar perfected correctly, it can come back for our meeting in the morning. It's only thing I'm saying. Okay, well, what we can do is take it up. Okay. Okay. All women Davis can do that. If she wants. That's what I was trying to get done. Okay, we'll do that. Thank you.

32:15
Board bills for perfection. Oh, hold on a second. All the ones that have questions on board bill. Number 44. All the one from the 20th.

Cara Spencer, Alderwoman ward 20  32:31
Thank you, Mr. President, members of board just a moment, just a statement of clarity here. The alderman from the 24th pointed out the bill that we had are looking at today fixes simply fixes an issue related to a bill that we passed last session, some of the concerns that were brought up in the hearing and some I presume, of the contractors that have come to the alderwoman from the first and I'd like to also point out the alderman from the 2016 has been very involved in identifying some issues with some of the minority contractors are related to changes made previously. So this bill doesn't actually address those. It's just making some clerical issues. But I would like to add my name as the chair of health to the list of people that are committed to working on addressing any of the issues brought up by the minority contractors, I think we, as a committee have a commitment to trying to address those issues of you know, following the passage of just as clerical issues with the bill, looking at some of the things that we may have addressed in the bill that we could, we could maybe improve on if necessary moving forward. But just wanted to clarify that, you know, any of the concerns are related to a bill that we passed last year, and just want to make sure that if we don't if we hold this bill up today, it's my understanding that the health department would not be in compliance with our law. This is putting us outside of step with with regulations that we really need to be enforcing and could put us in a unfortunate legal position of the summer. Is was what the health department is kind of communicating to us at this point. So I just wanted to be mindful of that as we as we move forward. That's it. That's all I have on the matter, Mr. President. So I hand over the mic.

34:20
Thank you all. All one from the luck. I lowered my hand. Thank you. Okay. Any further discussion on board Bill 4401, from the fifth.

34:36
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, I will admit that I hadn't been following this bill as closely as I probably should have. And I feel that I do have some reservations about it. And I just, I guess I don't truly understand the urgency but if in fact we haven't been able to talk to a minor To contractors to see how this will impact them, I don't feel that it's something that we should move forward with, then try to come back and trust that someone else will go above and beyond to try to address those concerns. If it's not, true time sensitive issue for us to rush it, I would encourage all of my colleagues to either vote no or recommend that we put this on their formal calendar until we can have more discussion about it. And that's all I have, Mr. President.

35:29
Thank you all the woman from the lovely. Thank you, Mr. President, I'd like to inquire the alderman from the 24th. Please join for question 201 from

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  35:41
the left. Absolutely. Thank you.

35:45
Thank you. Um, so we had in on the health committee, there were several contractors that came in minority contractors that came in to testify both union and non union. What I gleaned and I'm just gonna ask you is that anyone can bid on these projects, as long as there's an apprenticeship program, correct? Absolutely. They meet those apprenticeship requirements.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  36:10
And they're I shouldn't, I shouldn't say anyone actually, I should elaborate on that answer. Yes. However, this this Not, not this current bill, the previous bill did remove some conflicts of interest. So you couldn't both do the testing to see if asbestos was present, and then do the demolition work. And that's, that is because people were rigging the system, they were testing to show that there was either more or less asbestos present than there actually is, in order to raise and lower the, the bids and the costs of the ultimate demolition work. So part of this bill does change the ability of any contractor across the board to both test for the presence of asbestos, and then do the demolition work. So I just want to be clear there. But yes, going through the apprenticeship program, anyone can go through the apprenticeship program and then do the work. They just are not able to do both sides of the work.

37:25
Okay. And also, I'm the producer apprenticeship requirements have worked by this state, correct. by the Department of Labor. Yes. Okay. But it doesn't have to be union, correct? Absolutely. Not. Anyone can engage in that. Yeah. I mean, the apprentice, I feel like we kind of sometimes this gets lost in these conversations, which I completely understand. We want to make sure it's a fair process. I have a minority female contractor, in my ward, a constituent I've been working with, and I see firsthand, just working with her, just some of the processes that can be a little difficult, sometimes in the hurdles. And as a woman, I, you know, feel her pain on that. But also, we I feel strongly that we need to uplift these apprenticeship programs that are they, the men and women get paid a living wage. It's not like some of us who came out of college with debt, they get to pay the living wage, they get health insurance, incredible health insurance, a lot of the times to get trained for these jobs skills that will continue to pay these jobs and continue to pay great wages. So I think sometimes the importance of these apprenticeship programs are lost in these conversations. And also, I don't know if anyone remembers, but two workers who had not gone through the same type of training that these apprenticeship programs offer, unfortunately, were killed in an elevator shaft. During one of these abatements downtown, I don't know if anybody remembers that a couple years ago. But that's just something really important to remember. And it just kind of focuses the importance on the workers. And then also the just in addition to the air quality issues, too, so. And one other thing, I just want to add that for those of our colleagues who haven't watched the health disparity

39:29
presentation that was in health about three or four weeks ago, talking about our air quality disparities in the city of St. Louis. I think that's really important. Everyone should go watch that. It doesn't take much time, but it's pretty eye opening. So Well, thank you very much for letting me talk your ear off alderman from the 24th. And with that, I'm done. Done. Thank you, Mr. President.

39:52
Thank you. I'm alderman from the 22nd Thank you, Mr. President, with the alderman from the 24th. You, alderman from 24. Three yield a question to the alderman from 22nd. Yes, I will. From 22nd. Please proceed. Thank you, alderman.

40:13
So my understanding is this bill is basically a cleanup bill, taking care of some technical issues. Is that correct? It is. Okay. But also there's some anxiety and concern from minority contractors. And it's I like you said, you're in agreement to change in a language to compromise with people who feel they may be negatively impacted.

40:39
Is that correct?

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  40:39
I'm certainly will if if people are negatively impacted by this, I'm certainly willing to have a discussion and figure out if we may be able to tweak anything that keeps the spirit of this bill alive, which is to ensure that workers are protected. And to prevent the, the idea that the the foxes guarding the henhouse on on these conflicts of interest, and to ensure that when workers are dealing with asbestos, that they are properly trained and certified and have the knowledge base, because you know, especially this is something so dangerous. And so just malignant throughout our our region, that when workers aren't skilled, aren't certified, don't know what they're doing working with this bestest, they end up killing themselves, and they end up killing other people. And so, I mean, we're, this is high stakes poker here, and I am 100% willing to sit down with anyone I always am. But I do believe that the protections put forward in this are very important. And I would be very hesitant to start rolling back workers protection that passed this board unanimously four months ago, without some, some real sit down discussions and an understanding on what exactly needed to be changed in order to make this legislation work for everyone. I'd want to know more about the the issues themselves.

42:36
Sure. And certainly, I'm an advocate for training and wanting to make sure that people are properly trained when they're working around asbestos, because that is a serious contaminant that causes grave health issues.

42:51
But in light of some of the conversation that we're having today, would you mind, it just goes on the perfection and formal calendar so that we can have more discussion about it. I understand if we do nothing today? It's it's going to move the way it is with the language currently. But if there's an opportunity for us to make it better, and it is my understanding that there has been some communications with the album from a 26, I'm not sure if you would like to get in this conversation or not, I would certainly want to hear what she has to say if she doesn't mind, maybe that would you know, help some of us better understand what's going on since we weren't part of those discussions. But

43:37
and light of some of the conversation that we've had, it's given me a reason to pause. And if we're going to amend the bill, again, if it passes today, or this week, we can just kind of make this a better bill. Before it gets there. Randy finally passed that those are my thoughts.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  43:57
So I understand that. And if we were another few weeks back in the in the session, I would certainly be more open to that. My concern now is, you know that this the entire purpose of this bill, Miss araghchi, from the health department, let me know that there were some issues that were held holding up the health department from effectively doing their job. And so if we put this on informal, that means that it's going to be several several months now, where we don't have a meaningful air quality control in the city of St. Louis. So I think it's important that we get this through so that our health department can do their job. While we have these conversations rather than handcuffing our health department and removing the protections that we would Kind of that this bill intended to put into place and re address concerns, while our health department is in a position to effectively look out for the health interests of the residents of the city, rather than sidelining our health department and not allowing them to do what they need to do not allowing these permits to go through not allowing the the fee schedule to get back into parity with the county forcing our Health Department employees to to refer to an ordinance that has as much struck through language as it has not unstruck through language. And so I would certainly ask that, if anyone's on the fence about this to to I welcome them to the table to discuss it. But I would ask that they assist me in getting this through so that our health department can do their job while we're having these discussions.

46:17
Okay. Anything further element from the 22nd? I'm sure with the auto woman from the 26th. You Oh, one from 26 will yield a question to all the men from the second. All the woman from the 26 year the question today? Yes, yes. Can you hear me? I'm sorry. I'm having bad connection. Can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Okay. Yeah. Yes.

46:52
Thank you all woman. It's been said that you have you've been having conversations

46:59
about some of the issues that the minority contractors have anxieties about. So can you enlighten us on a little bit of that? Sure.

47:08
Sure. The conversation I had with one of my constituents. His name was Frank Wilson, he isn't minority contractor in the city of St. Louis. He reached out to me The morning of the meeting, the health committee meeting. And so I joined him to support him on the health committee meeting, he emailed some concerns that he forwarded to an entire health committee. Group. And then after that, we had some conversations where Kara said foreign Chairman, carrot out of William Smith said that she would have meetings. Also the some of the lobbyists said that they would have some meetings along with alderman Ryan said that they would have some meetings to clear up the concerns in the bill that had already passed. This bill today was just cleaning up some language. And so it was from my understanding that whether we vote this today or not, this still will be the same, you could still be in the same place as it relates to the building as relates to the law. So what we were trying to do for the time, during the the time sensitivity issue was to do this one and then work to make sure that we cover it and offer some amendments in September.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  48:20
Okay, thank you. Mr. President. I have no further questions. All along from the first Mr. President, members of the board, it's alderman from the 24th. We yield from 2011. Okay,

Carol Howard, Alderwoman ward 14  48:44
I had my hand up. Yeah. Her her hand was up

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  48:50
early. Um, Mr. President, I've spoken before so I would yield to the other one from the 14th. If that's all right with you.

48:58
All the one from the 14th. recognize those hands? keep laughing.

Carol Howard, Alderwoman ward 14  49:05
That's fine. We'll the alderman from the 24th yield for a question. Oh, absolutely. alderman you keep referencing the urgency for the health department. Can you be more specific as to what how this would hamper their their work? specifically? I think that I give us some better understanding.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  49:28
I believe that the alderman from the 20th maybe in a better position to answer that question than I am. My my understanding from talking to Miss araghchi was that right now they're having a heck of a time both with the structure language as well as the the fee structure in the bill not being excuse me in the ordinance not being the same as the fee structure on the website, which has given them fits over there and slowing everything down. But I believe that the alderwoman may have more a more substantive answer for you.

Carol Howard, Alderwoman ward 14  50:11
Okay, um, well, the older one went from the 20 appealed to questions all along from the 23 year old question to all one. Well, oh, one from 14, please see. I'm older woman, oh, how does this affect what this shutdown what the health department does? I guess what they do is issue permits for demolition and so forth. And I'm not quite sure what, what how this impacts the health department and their function. Can you explain that to us?

Cara Spencer, Alderwoman ward 20  50:43
It's kind of complicated. You may remember a couple of years ago, we did an air quality bill, where I could take a step to give you the history of the state used to fund air monitoring throughout the state of Missouri. And they used to fund cities to do that, in 2010. Through nothing more than a line item veto. Governor Nixon eliminated funding to cities to monitor air, which was really disastrous for St. Louis, because we could no longer afford to do any of those inspections. And so what happened is the state of Missouri took over, we had one inspector for the entire state of St. Louis region, it was St. Louis city, St. Louis County, and even broader than that, so they're really, for one inspector covering that area, we weren't really ensuring compliance with our laws, and they were enforcing state laws rather than mean city laws. And in a city, you have people living much more closely together, you have demolitions and other things that really impact air quality. So we have higher standards than you would find in rural Missouri for asbestos and other contaminants that can go in the air. If you demolish an old building in the middle of the countryside, it's not going to impact your community as much as it would if you demolish a building felicite as best as here, and graboid Park where the particulate matter will just go to lots of different members of your community because people live so much closer. So in 2016, I started working with the Health Department on trying to localize our air monitoring. And at that time, we worked with a coalition of St. Louis County in St. Louis city, to bring our ordinances in line with one another so that we could have a regional approach and so that if you have demolition contractors, any kind of contractors that were interfacing with the city or county, there was some uniformity between the city and county on those issues. You didn't want contractors having to have totally different air regulation, you know, in the same region. And that took us a couple years to get to, to, to the combination of a bill that we passed a couple years ago that started this process. Now the alderman from the 24th took this a step further, at what Let me take a step back, following the passage of that bill, we finally got our own air quality monitors here in the city of St. Louis. And we did that by redirecting the fee that the contractor paid previously to the state, we redirected it to the city of St. Louis. And that gets us about 150, I think $1,000 a year in revenue. And that enables us to hire an air quality Inspector, alderman Araya took this a step further with the bill he's got in place that further protects workers. You know, the bill that passed last year, the concerns that are being raised by the minority contractors, and I, I have to agree, I mean, I think we should look into these I mean, anytime kaneo contract contractors have concerns, we should look into them. But the bill that was passed last year puts those changes in place. And you know, from to the point of the alderman from the 21st or 22nd. You know, this bill, just it doesn't impact those concerns. I do think we should continue to have that dialogue. I'm committed to it. But the bill before us today simply puts in line with alderman Ryan, the bill last year, changed the fee structure so that we could generate more revenue for the city. But that puts us out align with that regional agreement, we have to make sure that the fees and the structures are uniform across the region. This fix puts us back in line with the regional approach and I think helps keep us uniform, allowing us to stay out of step here as problematic for the health department. Because they feel like maybe we're not with they're not operating within our current law because of the flaws in it. And the longer that this is the case I think the more problematic it is for our health department and we want to make sure that we don't put Dr. Eccles and his crew in Jeopardy there. So it's a conflict here. I think the alderman older woman from the fifth brings up an excellent point, we often say we're going to go back and do things, and we sometimes don't do it. We should be committed here to continuing that dialogue. And, but I do think just to protect Dr. Eccles and his crew, we could maybe fix this for the summer. I'm really grateful to hear the, you know, the concerns of the full board almost it appears here today, to continue to discuss how important it is to both protect workers and to protect the ability for minority contractors to do work within our city, especially at a time of very, very high unemployment, and high vacancy and high need. And I think that commitment of the sponsor, is there the commitment of the health committees there. And it sounds like the commitment of the board is here to continue the dialogue. No, that answered all your questions. It's a complex, it's very, very complicated. I

Carol Howard, Alderwoman ward 14  56:05
think you're muted. Yeah, I know. I'm basically what you're saying is that there's a dis dis disconnect between what is in the bill and what's published, and this resolves that it and the minority participation was a flaw in the first bill, I guess, or or was not addressed as much as as need be in the first bill. Is that correct?

Cara Spencer, Alderwoman ward 20  56:28
The first bill main changes that have caused some, the first bill made changes that have caused some subsequent concerns in the minority contracting industry. And I think we need to take a look at how we can ensure both protection of workers and our morning minority contractors. I don't want to see a single minority contractor go out of business for any reason. And I wouldn't record that I i'm not saying that this bill that we passed last year would do that. But certainly that is a concern worthy of looking into it ensuring that that that doesn't happen. I'm committed to monitoring this through the summer, no pun intended. And making sure that that doesn't happen. And that we do have if there are concerns about being unionized, or being forced into that, that we make sure that we have a robust community that can ensure that doesn't isn't the case. But leaving this without adjusting those technical problems doesn't fix the concerns. It doesn't revert us back to a bill. Before the the concerns raised by the more minority contractors. It simply prolongs the amount of time that the health department is at risk for not being within our law. And, you know, with all the things that the health department has right now, I to know that this is causing a significant amount of stress within the department department that's already really overburdened. And, and it I would hate to see them continue to be burdened, you know, with the stress of not being within compliance.

Carol Howard, Alderwoman ward 14  58:07
Okay. I understand. Thank you. That's all I have, Mr. President.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  58:13
Right. Thank you all the 101 from the first. Thank you, Mr. President. So as I listened to the other one from the 20th. And I remember, when we actually were at meetings, it was the young lady's birthday, and we had to change things and get things done. kind of remember that meeting vividly. But what I hear is that, once this bill went into effect, contractors, black contractors, minority contractor said, Hey, this is affecting us. So when people say that I want people to take note and to address it. So what we're saying is, we're more, what I hear is that we're more concerned and fitting in with the rest of the group than resolving this problem. Because obviously, they learned pretty soon with the changes that we did with the original bill that there was problem. So I am of the mindset, there's no time like the present to fix problems about minority participation. In the many, many years I've been here, most of the times we do not reach the numbers we're supposed to in minority participation. And I want good air quality. I don't want the fox guarding the henhouse. But I don't want to disregard minority participation that is very, very important. And so sometimes you have to do what's called hostage politics, which is that I'm not fixing your problem, because you're not listening to my problem. And so in this case, I hear everybody said, Oh, we'll have a conversation. But let us get this past. What I am saying is, let's have that conversation. Now. The more I hear, you've convinced me, let's have that conversation now and let's fix it because maybe It's something easy to fix, it may be something hard, but having that conversation down the line, and we're going to be in recess for summer. And this is already adversely affecting them. It's not a good position for me as a person who, who is an African American female, but also who has worked with minority contractors. And, and so have been supported by them and know the pain that they go to. And every time we have a project with our house or with our properties, we try to make sure minorities included, so I can't just say, well, we'll get back to you. There's no time like the present. And the people that called me or not people that call to lobby me often. So they were like in an uproar. I just didn't have time because we have the Air Force. And now all this other stuff that's on the table, but didn't have time. But like I said, I can't vote for this at this point. And Mr. President, members of board if the alderman from the 24th, we yield? I have a question for him. First, yes. Okay. And so I agree with you. We got a I have an uncle who died from a best a C book up in the Ford Motor plant. So I know the pain he came to our last family reunion, and we knew we would not see it again, fairly young, because I think 70 is young now. But so I agree with that part. But so it's the problem that the minority contractors had that as you understand that, is that the component of apprenticeships, is that what the problem was it was there something else that that they had not fleshed out more clearly what their problems was with the bill.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:01:48
So I hesitate to paint with a broad brush here and say that all minority contractors are feeling this way or that way. In the in the committee hearing, we actually had more minority contractors testify in favor of this bill than oppose it. Which I think is important to note. But the the opposition's that were brought up, were mostly in regard to the conflicts of interest. And that gets to the heart of the bill. And so I think that to sideline, everything based on the concerns of, of the two folks who talked at the committee hearing, at least, that opposed it. I, I don't believe that that is the correct thing to do. Because then we're going with to people, rather than sitting down and actually inviting people to the conversation, which may ultimately just exacerbate the problem that we're having here today, where people feel like they're left out of the discussion. Because you know, this wasn't one sided. This wasn't a situation where we loaded the committee hearing full of people. There were there were people who were genuinely in favor of this, and there were people who had concerns about it. And and I think it's also important to note that this was the second opportunity to raise those concerns and thus far throughout to committee hearings, and

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:03:27
to

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:03:29
second reads, to third read or to perfections. We've heard a few vague concerns from a few people that get to the heart of the committee let that get to the heart of what we are trying to do with the with the workers protection with ensuring that the workers are the ones who maintain that certificate rather than the employer because under under the current system prior to this, well, I shouldn't say under the current system prior to this. When certifications came through, they went to the employer meaning that if the worker then left that employer, that you may have people working on the job who have no idea what they're doing, who can still say they're certified. So this ensures that in demolitions and abatement that the conflicts of interest are, are gone. And that ultimately, we're looking out for the residents of the city and the workers. I find it a bit strange that on on a bill that we championed as a worker Wrightsville over and over. And we've heard from workers of, you know, all walks of life, that we're now here really debating things on behalf of the employers who part of this bill was to protect workers from their employers. Like what happened with Miss Paige, when she was removing those vinyl asbestos tiles and she was told go remove that tiles, she did not have the expertise to know that was something that was gonna be problematic for her. She went and did it because it's a bat tile had she been told this is a vinyl assess this tile, maybe she would know had she gone through an apprenticeship program, maybe she would know if she had licensure, maybe she would know, if the person or the entity that bid the job had to bid the job in a fair way. So that they were going to fairly compensate Miss page for the asbestos abatement, then, you know, that could have been avoided, potentially. And so I do as a, you know, a small business man, I do feel for anytime there's an additional regulation that comes through, you know, I am both a minority and a small businessman. So I understand the concerns. And that this, this is one of the rare industries that I think we need a serious level of regulation on because we've seen that the current regulations prior to what we're trying to fix now, they they weren't working. And we were still having workers injured. And and you know, as bestest doesn't care whether you're a minority contractor or not, you know, exposure, a single exposure can kill you. And it can kill you a month from now it could kill you 60 years from now. And so this not only protects the workers, it protects the bosses and it protects the six year old girl walking to school a block away after that wrecking ball goes through. And that's bestest, gets airborne. And so this is something that we need in order to protect the residents from the Number One Health Equity indicator that that is flawed in between the North side and the south side is actually air quality. And so when we, when we handcuff our health department on air quality, due to the concerns of very few people, I think that's a mistake. I think that instead we give our health department the tools to do what they need to do. And then we do our jobs. And we get back in these rooms. And we sit down and we hash these things out. And we make sure that that our residents are protected and the interests of small businesses protected.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:08:25
Thank you. So that was going to be my The question was the level of support. So as you saw maybe based on if it was a very small company, versus maybe one that had more resources, do you know, do you have any idea? Not support? You know,

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:08:43
I, I haven't had sufficient opportunity to really sit down and really get all the moving parts on where the concerns are to the point of knowing it's a small company versus a large company. I think that that is an important part of the discussion moving forward. But again, I would ask that we not handcuff our health department while we're having those discussions.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:09:14
So all alderman as I said, I'm just gonna go present I just haven't. I mean, I support everything what you're saying I can say watch my uncle died. And last family reunion. And he's on. He's he's got oxygen with him. And we know we're not going to see him again. It's a painful thing. And so I think there's a vibe of man and just reduced to nothing and he was working in the Ford plant up in Detroit. So I do get what you're talking about. This I'm all I'm concerned though. Whenever people reach out to me and lobby me, I'm not one that open is opened up to a lot of lobbying. So this this is a person who I really respect. And so I just haven't had enough time to hear what her side because sometimes You just don't know the other person side. So I'm just going to go present. I'm not trying to hold it up. But I'm also president and I am going to reach out to her this evening to see if I can get more information about it. Thank you. I have no further questions. Thank you, Mr. President.

1:10:14
Further discussion? All the ones from the 26. Oh, thank you, Mr. President and members of the board. Again, I just wanted to chime in and say that,

1:10:27
respectfully, I'm kind of against what my colleague Britton Ryan, alderman Ryan just said it was one person that reached out to me about this, he is a contractor and a worker. And the other entities that have reached out subsequently from him are contractors and workers, and they are in our communities. And I apologize to him for dropping the ball and not catching something that I might could have cashed prior to this when the bill were passed. But I believe in the spirit of the bill, I believe in the spirit of this page, we actually still stay in contact, it was kind of hard to hear her voice when you play to during the committee meeting. But the reality is, again, that what we're voting on today, doesn't change the law of this bill, that we do have to come together and work together, collectively. And I'm hoping that alderman Ryan, and others will be at their table more than that. felt like they were not at the table before to move forward with this and be ready in September, to offer some amendments. So thank you again for

1:11:37
the time and the commitment. But I do just want to chime in when I heard Ottoman Ryan say it was a few it's not a few is more than a few. It was a few on that health committee meeting. But even if it was one, which was when made me move my constituent, Mr. Wilson, I think we owe them the opportunity to have their concerns heard and addressed. Thank you.

1:11:58
Thank you Any further discussion? alderman from 23rd? Yes, I've been listening to money raised, lowered, raised and lowered my hand probably about five times. Because I've been all over the place. I, I, when I listen to everyone, I certainly agree with what alderman the Ryan is saying. But I also noticed that the the caucus in particular, the black members seem to have a real concern. Which bothers me a lot. I'm one that I'll either vote present are and when asked if he would consider it because it's really a short recess. In fact, if we keep having extra meetings, recess might only be a day long, because we keep on having more and more meetings. I and I will blame myself, because I certainly know that I could sit in on any committee meeting. And I did not sit in on the health committee meetings. Usually I, I don't always sit in a meeting. So I will blame myself. But if I just want you to know, in case you're counting votes, or you're thinking, Okay, well, this is how, you know, I don't want you to accidentally kill this. If moving it out a little bit would be helpful. So I'm just letting you know, it's so much easier when we're all together that we can talk to each other. I feel it's kind of silly hidden. If you're counting votes, you know, perfection for simple majority. But I am sure that I'll be present on this. With the hope that we can get this worked out. I don't know that there's a real answer. And I do respect what you're doing. And just I guess I'm not as much up to speed as I should be. So I just want to know for cotton boats. Just understand I'm president doesn't mean that I'm not supporting what you're doing is just, I guess I'm not informed enough to to vote. I appreciate that. Thank you. I was muted. All the woman from the 19th got on mute myself.

1:14:40
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. I've had a chance to listen. But I've also had a chance to experience and the history of this whole especially this

1:14:52
profession has a lot of history to it. And right now the minority contractors really have to protect themselves, because there was a point in time when we had free training for everybody for the asbestos program. And when nobody else wanted to do the job, and it was primarily minorities doing the work, and then the actual pay raise so high, that all of a sudden now everybody wants to take it over. So we need to make sure that it's not impossible for them to participate. And make sure that the requirements allow them to not only provide the knowledge of training that is available to those who would like to be trained, but that does not tie their hands as a small company, that they would have to set up a training program. So I think we need to talk about this. And as long as this bill has been moving forward, the last two or three weeks, I think that we could have had that conversation to get it cleared up. And I've worked too hard and too long with the minority contractors, and making sure that there's equity. And I'm not one to back down at this point. So I think it would behoove us to put it on the informal calendar. And I think that if we move hastily, to make sure that the appropriate meetings are held, I think that we will be okay. Because when we talk about entities, you have to remember that the coalition's that are out here that are trying to work together to make sure that they have equity, they don't have the luxury of hiring lobbyists. They don't have the luxury of having fancy offices, they have people sitting in them to take care of the paperwork that needs to be done. The owner is working just like his labors. So I want to make sure that we get this right. And if we've been doing it this way for I don't know how many years is not gonna hurt for another month or two. So I would really request the sponsor of the bill to reconsider and put it on the informal calendar. And everybody come together and make sure that all entities are present, and that this has resolution. Thank you, Mr. President. Right.

Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3  1:17:29
Thank you all the month from the third. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. With alderman from the 24th yield, alderman from 24. The yield question to alderman from third. Absolutely. Please, proceed. Appreciate. I'm very I just want to be very respectful with this. Just so we can be just want to be balanced. Michael max too many questions. But you are a minority, correct? Absolutely. Have any minorities at all come to you and told you that this is good for them in any way? Yes. Do you have any letters or any support letters, anything that can support not, you know, not saying that you yourself are not credible. But when things like this come up, and you do have individuals in bulk. And this is not just on on your bill. But on the ones before. You know, also, we have already stated that this is something that minorities will feel like will affect them. After the bill was passed, they came out and said it affected them. Now we're saying we want to clean up some clerical things, and we still have not fixed what they have said, I looked into what these individuals are saying affected them. We don't have a clear, concise idea as we're going back and forth on how it affects minorities. So as we're saying, we're going to take an effort to clean it up and they're already voicing opinions on something that pre exists, is hurting them. I think it already states this we're all you know, we're off on the wrong foot. So if the bare minimum, we don't have companies that can come forward and say I support this, this is why and this is why other minorities should get on board because this is about minorities. It's not just about air pollution. Now. Let's keep it real. We know for sure for sure that on the north side of St. Louis, we have a three times likely higher risk of getting asthma and any other diseases that come from air pollution. That's real. We know that a lot of our buildings been torn down and built up over the years have not been checked. We know for sure for sure that as development moves north, because it is we have development plans that have been worked out for certain parts. So the north side right now, we have over 12,000 parcels that the city owns LA and as developers come in and want to tear things down. The minorities that exists right now are afraid that they will not have the opportunity as they do right now. They dominate the demolitions on our side of town. When more money starts to come, those things will be something that is non existent for them, if we put more levels of scrutiny on these permits and any other things that they may not be able to obtain, based on not working with them from the jump action them, or these things are attainable. So there should be some type of constraints, some balance, or some type of report something from the minorities who do agree with this, that gives us something in writing that we can say why specifically these minorities agree, and why these minorities disagree. Now, all of my sisters have asthma, my area is one of the worst in the entire city, when you look at air pollution, and as we got it, I grew up in it, I was lucky enough not to catch it. I also understand that if we had more money in the neighborhood, then we have more people doing the right thing, we are still in that same position that we were in 20 years ago, when I moved into the Third Ward. And that's not because of the individuals that live there. This is actually a systemic thing that has happened over time, we know for sure that the Del Mar divide exists in a lot of other things. I won't dig into that, because you're not a part of that structure. But this is something that causes disruption. And when things are causing disruption, minorities generally don't have a voice. It's like push it through, let's ensure that this gets done. Why because it's for them. Nobody on the south side or further south are suffering from the same amount of air pollution we are. So when we are saying that, Hey, hold on, this needs to be looked at a second wave. And then you are saying no, no, you need it. You need it for this. You need it for that the unions are saying we need this. These one regular minorities. I know for sure the unions came to you about this, because I know the people in the unions. Right. Can I ask that question that the union?

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:22:02
I absolutely spoke to, to the unions about this, I spoke to labor about this issue for for quite some time. To address your earlier point. Regarding the minorities that do support this. We heard from several minority contractors and minority workers who do support this in the committee hearing, in fact that the committee hearing just a few days back was the first time that I had heard any concern from minority contractors on it we had Corey Elliot come and talk about it. We had CMT construction come talk about it both in favor as well as I believe three others that I can't name just off the off the top of my head. But if if you were to go back and and watch the the committee hearing on the matter, there are actually more minority contractors and minority workers in favor of continuing these protections than had opposed the protections. And I'm certainly not trying to run anything roughshod ram anything down anyone's throat,

Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3  1:23:21
I don't think you are, this is not. So let me make sure I'm clear, it's not about you, particularly because a lot of times we get and that's why I mentioned the union's we get this information from individuals who tell us who are working in the field every day, why this is a good move, to move the city forward. So it's not about you or the person, you are one of the people that I believe everybody has good intent, but we are a different perspective. So I definitely believe that your perspective is pure and your intent is also so in no way shape, form or fashion. Am I trying to say that you yourself as an individual pushing anything on minorities? I do not believe that at all. So if I came off like that, my apologies.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:23:59
No, no, not at all. I appreciate that. My only concern and the reason why I am pushing so firmly on this is the concern that is brought to me by the health department. And and I guess Additionally, the fact that it by not fixing this, the issues with the bill that put the health department in compliance, that doesn't solve the the underlying issue that we're discussing here today regarding the minority contracting, I am committed to sitting down and and having a better opportunity to discuss this with more folks on both sides of the issue who have an interest rather than because it what it what it seems to me It's potentially that folks weren't watching this legislation as as closely as maybe they would have liked to. And so we didn't get any weigh in on it until kind of late in the game. And now at the the 13th hour, we're trying to make changes that would.

Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3  1:25:30
Absolutely. And that is how politics works. When everything is happening, and we got so many things going on at one time, things happen. And this is one of those things when you catch it, you catch it, you say, Hello, I didn't see that ball coming. But I got it now, sir. Let me take a look at it. Let me see how we can make it work. Right. So you're with the construction companies on all minorities and not to cut you off? I apologize. Who did agree to this? Are they companies that work heavily with the unions? Are they non union?

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:26:02
You know, I that I could not tell you just off the top of my head. I wish I could, if I knew I would tell you.

Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3  1:26:10
And the reason that's important question is because if they are working for the same Indu individuals or with the same individuals who have the mutual interest, then you know, of course, they would see eye to eye on the issue, and they bring individuals who agree with, you know, so if those opposing voices were not there, and, you know, we don't have an understanding clearly, if these people work represent or have any type of connection with the union, I don't think it's fair to assess to say that that's a clear representation of the minorities who exist within this, the scope of of scope, the bill and what we're referring to. So and

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:26:50
that, that that point is well taken. My again, my my only concern with this is that we're kind of hamstringing the health department. Regardless of the, the the outcome of this today, I am absolutely committed to sitting down at the table and making sure that we we get this right. So I understand the concerns, I do genuinely understand the concerns, and I I do appreciate the fact that we're having this, you know, just 100% on policy. And, you know, I feel committed to, to putting this forward today at the request of the health department. And if if, if, if it fails today, then we'll re address it, you know, I'll be working on it over break. And

Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3  1:27:57
so I would say like with, with all of the more pressing things on the planet right now COVID, we all are running from an invisible disease, or bacteria that we can't see, right? There are so many more things that the entire planet is focused on. And air pollution should be one. But what if we're gonna talk construction and all these other things, I think a month or two for us to get back in session, and we're gonna talk air pollution, let's let that be that own thing, right? We should be figuring out a way to ensure with the without construction, how do we get these people to have better air, because regardless whether this bill passes or not, babies that wake up and find themselves in the Third Ward on the north side tomorrow are still going to wake up under these conditions that we are living under right now. right this second, there is no amount of bills today that we can force through this phone to change the amount of air that we breathe in into more of it's toxic to our lungs. And if that is the focus, then that should be the focus on its own. That should be something that we all are looking at. Well, we can have some, some a, you know, a united front on the board board saying we want a better quality of air in the city of St. Louis period. And we definitely want to for those who have not had it, who does not have the chance to, you know, run and have clear loans before they get to the age of 13. So once again, if that's something that we want to focus on as a city, and let that be a conduit into all of other companies and showing what that whatever they output in emissions, and everything else is up to quality within the city, then that's fine. But let that be the focus. And let's not tied in with a million other things that we are going to end up feeling like there's controversy behind because there's other folks that are involved, who feel left out. This is about air. And if that's what the focus is, that's what the health department is saying this is about air, we are holding them up from being able to give us better air quality. And let's look into some ways where it has nothing to do with construction that gives us a better air quality in general. So we're not even talking about the unions or this or that There are plenty of things we can look into. And I think right now, this is not the perfect time with everything that's going on. And so many things that we have to focus on outside of just the board. If this is a change that we feel like is a financial, a structural change for individuals who depend on money right now, with every single contractor out there, this minority, they depend on every dime, and every dollar and every contract they get with the city, the harder we make it for them to get these contracts, the harder it is for them to feed they found, the harder it is to feed their families, the easier it is for us to go back out into our neighborhoods and find alternative methods. That is not the way that we should be working as a city. And that's not the way I think that you intend for these things to go. But everything has unintended consequences, whether positive or negative. This is something that we already see, has already negatively impacted some people. And we have not looked into that just yet. Imagine the pope folks who have not spoken up to try to do for us. With that I yield the floor. Thank you, brother, unless you want to say something. I don't want to

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:31:07
just go Yeah, yeah, I

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:31:09
would just like to say one thing. So, you know, I when I when I came here today, I was pretty committed to just letting the chips fall where they may on this, because it seems like a you know, we're just gonna have the status quo if if it were to fail. But I think that that there's been enough concern brought to my attention about it, that if the the folks who have addressed these concerns will help me get to the table with some of the concerned parties that they're talking about, that I'd be willing to move this over to the informal and then we can we can sit down we can have some serious discussions about how this how this is going to affect both workers and and smaller contractors.

1:32:22
Move move forward from there. Would you be willing, would you be willing to help me out with that?

Brandon Bosley, Alderman ward 3  1:32:28
100% bro, you add something.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:32:31
Awesome. We'll figure it out together. Well, with that President Reid, I would like to move this board bill to the informal calendar.

1:32:39
I'm Clark please make note of that place board Bill 44 on the perfection and formal count.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:32:47
So notice, board Bill 27 as amended, sponsored by a woman named grassier odd woman grain out a woman Clark Hubbard out a woman rise out woman Spencer, and a woman Middlebrook and ordinance requiring third party food delivery services and third, full establishment to display City Health Department performance, and risk based inspection letter grades on the platforms used for taking online orders, and prohibiting third party food delivery services from imposing requirements regarding purchase price covered. Covered establishment may charge for orders of food and beverages or goods and capping feet. Fees charge food establishment by third party food delivery services and requiring third party food delivery services to obtain a business license required third party delivery services to disclose commission charged food establishment by the third party food delivery service and required third party food delivery services and food establishment to disclose gratuity policies for delivery workers and contain an emergency clause and a severability clause.

1:34:02
Although all the woman from the six recognize on the perfectional board Bill 27, as amended.

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  1:34:11
Thank you, Mr. President, I move that we perfect for Bill 27 as amended.

1:34:15
Whoo. But oh, one for the 610 a second on that motion. Second, second by all one from the eighth one from six. Please proceed.

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  1:34:25
Thank you, Mr. President. This board bill is in response to a lot of conversations I think many of us have had concerning our small businesses and independent businesses here in the city of St. Louis, trying to help them stay afloat during the pandemic that is really making their business suffer right at a head level. That's, I think, pretty unprecedented. And so I've been really grateful for the partnership of my co sponsors, the businesses that I've worked with Uber Eats, which is one of the third party delivery platforms as well as doordash, we spent a decent amount of time coming to a place where we were able to compromise. So overall, this bill would require third party delivery services to obtain a business license. Right now, none of the operators that are currently undertaking this work in the city of St. Louis, only one of them has a current business license, it would also cap all fees and commissions that are charged to our local businesses at no more than 20%. That's including, but not limited to, things like delivery fees, credit card fees, advertising, promotions, and marketing. It would also require these platforms to disclose to their customers, folks like you and I who are ordering, maybe lunch or dinner from these places to confirm that the delivery drivers are receiving the full amount of the opportunity that that we intend for them to do so and that it's also not being calculated as a part of their base pay, it's something that is extra for them. It also creates an exemption for small local deliveries is we do have one bike service here in the city of St. Louis. This would exempt them from from the restrictions that we're imposing on some of these larger national platforms. And it also includes a sunset 60 days after the mayor would lift her proclamation that we're currently under. During this pandemic, we would have to revisit this bill, if we were interested in continuing to have some of the same requirements and restrictions placed on the platforms. I'm happy to take questions if my colleagues have them. All of my friends, sir.

1:36:51
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. Just wanted to echo comments in support of this board bill. And thank you all the woman for the six for her work on this. I know.

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:37:03
It took a while and there were some compromise and various drafts, we're working with the restaurant industry working with the delivery companies. But I think this is a good result. And it's going to be very helpful to our local bars and restaurants. who, you know, many of which many of whom, when they signed contracts with these services, you know, delivery was just a small part of their business. And this was some added incentive. But as their model has had to shift to all takeout and delivery, it became clear that some of these commissions were that were being collected were exorbitant. And I think this is a good result. And I'm glad that the delivery companies came to the table and worked with the album from the sixth on this. So I would ask to be added as a co sponsor. And and we'll be voting in support of this. Thank you.

1:37:54
Madam Clerk, please make note of that that alderman from the seventh as a co sponsor to form alderman from the 25th. Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to be added as a co sponsor to the bill. Madam Clerk, please make note of that at all.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:38:16
So now, all one from the 20th. All the one from the 20th.

Cara Spencer, Alderwoman ward 20  1:38:25
Thank you, Mr. President, members aboard, I just wanted to make sure that I was added as a sponsor really, that did that yesterday. But I wanted to also commend the alderman from the six. This was an enormous amount of work, as evidenced by the massive amount of little amendments we put in yesterday just to address all the concerns of the business owners across the city. And this, I think, is a step in the right direction to nod to our small businesses who have really been negatively impacted through this. And so the leadership of the alderman from the six doing all the dirty work behind the scenes to make sure that everyone that I can see is pleased with the result is an incredible feat and something that we should really commend her

Heather Navarro, Alderwoman ward 28  1:39:05
for are all the ones from the 28th. Thank you, Mr. President. I also just wanted to make sure that my name was added I was in the hearing yesterday, and it had asked to be added to the CO sponsor, but I didn't see my name on the agenda this morning. So just confirm, please make

1:39:21
sure that all the ones in phrase has asked her name via alderman from the 16th. Thank you, Mr. President, if the clerk would add me as a co sponsor as well, thank you. Madam Clerk, please make note that for the 16th on the 24th

Bret Narayan, Alderman ward 24  1:39:43
Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to thank the older woman from the sixth for her work on this and request to be added as a co sponsor.

1:39:54
Please make note that from 24th, all the one from the 19th Thank you, Mr. President, I'd like to have my name added. I appreciate the effort that was put forward, because this is really going to help a lot of small businesses. Thank you.

1:40:11
Now, of course, please make note that all other one from 13. Yes, I would like my name added also. And I do appreciate all the work that the sixth floor alderman did to thank you.

1:40:26
Please make any further discussion, Any further discussion? All right. All, all one for the city recognized.

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  1:40:38
Thank you, Mr. President. That was a very refreshing interaction between my colleagues and I, I wish there were more of that down here. appreciate everyone's kind words and support. And with that, I renew my motion,

1:40:52
the move, but all one from six. Second about all the one for me that we prepared for Bill 27, as amended, All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed? Motion carries.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:41:13
And it's the extent of barbells for perfection.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:41:19
What's before us now?

1:41:20
All the ones are from that? person? Yeah, we want to talk about six and four.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:41:29
So it's all the one from the 19th. I'm not overstepping stepping. I don't want to step on something you don't want to do. But we did not engro 64. And so it was perfect it without an attachment. And so asked if we could bring it back out on the floor. Perfect. Put it back on the perfection calendar perfected and then send it back into our committee so we could have it. In our committee tomorrow morning. That's what I was trying to do, Mr. President. Okay.

1:41:56
Um, we we can't read perfect. The bill that's been perfected already. What we

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:42:03
Yes, you can Mr. You can suspend the rules and put it back on the perfection calendar.

1:42:07
Yeah, that's what that's what that's that's that's the our option is to haven't voted on the prevailing side move to reconsider the vote because it's all the bill has already been perfected. Right. So we'd have to move it back to the perfection calendar having voted on the prevailing side. The challenge in this case is when Mr. Clark, and we need to know the day was perfect. Sure that, alderman from the

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:42:51
okay. from the President on from the first Yes. So when we have so there is a procedure when the rules have problem to send it back. We didn't just we send it back, get it? We correct it and bring it back in committee. I know what you're talking about. You're talking about from the last meeting? Yeah. Okay.

1:43:22
So all woman from the 19th? Would you like to make a motion at all? Hey, wait a minute. Thank you. I thought you recognize me, then we're moving on? I have a technical question. If we do this doesn't require a three day before it can be engrossed. And my other question is, can't we just engross it as a committee of the whole? So my two questions if this can go back, and it's not going to have to have the three day Hold up, which I believe it would have to you know, I'm asking the president of the board. These questions and I'd like answers are at least give me somebody that can give me the answers. The clerk or the attorney for the board or somebody I can give you the answer. So I just thought so this bill was perfected on the 29th. So being perfected on the 29th. We cannot move to reconsider it at this point. It was perfected in the language within the bill that the language in the bill references. The amendment in the attachment. The attachment was not loaded on the Google Drive so the bill itself would not need to be amended if in the language In the bill itself refer reference that attachment. And that's what we need to get from now the one from the 19th. And also the all one from the first who reviewed it and, and engrossment. But the bill, if that is the case that it referenced an attachment, but the attachment was not loaded on the drive, there isn't any need to amend the bill, because the bill was adopted with the with the reference in there to the attachment. So that's what we need to find out from 2013. No, I appreciate that. The thing that was brought up in engrossment, I just want to be clear, was that it was passed without the attachment. Yeah. And mail was referenced. Yeah, I just wanted to be clear, because I know this is important that we get through for the airport. This is not something that you know, but I just want to make sure that we're making the right decisions. That's all. Yes. If the bill itself reference and attachment. And if the attachment was not on the Google Drive, that's one thing. But if the attachment is up, is available, then we've taken the there isn't any need to read perfect the bill. Right, which would be very problematic now because we'd have to move reconsider the, you know, the, the previous motion, or the one for the 19th.

1:46:49
This, Mr. President, members of the board, I have been very respectful of the chairperson of the Rules Committee. My personal opinion, I shall voice now. There, a board bill was passed with a reference to an attachment, the reference to the attachment.

1:47:13
And passing this bill does not change the intent of the bill. On the body of the bill stays the same is the same. And the attachment was forwarded to that committee on

1:47:30
today, I believe. Yeah, there was a committee meeting today, today. So it's only about a technical issue of a physical day. But it's not about the actual intent of the bill, the wording of the bill or needing to change any wording in the bill. So I am again, going to leave it up to the clerk, the President, and the chairman of that committee. I personally don't think that we need to do anything any different. But just an older person sponsoring a bill. Thank you, Mr. President. I'll warm from first.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:48:14
Mr. President, members of the board. So I know the different status why I asked. And it is on the zoom meeting, if it was just something that was left off, or was it perfected? Without that? That was my question, because that does make a big difference. If it is something that is just left off, and it didn't get picked up. That's one thing if it was perfected without the amendment, which is the very question that I asked and was told that it was. And so if there's a mistake, you can go and look at the zoom meeting yourself. And so if it was affected without that, then the only thing that we can do as our committee is engrossing as is. Now that's going to run down the line. Because when every when you get further down the line, when you have a bill and it's referenced by an incorporates by reference, and there is no attachment, then you can't incorporate it. So that's what I was trying to stop. So I specifically asked that question, because there are two different events that could have happened, it could not have been loaded onto the Google Drive, which I also understand, or it was perfected without that, which is a different consideration. So I was told it was perfected without it. So that's why I did that. So here's my thing, what you I want you to know, we did not we are still have that other meeting going because we just reset. So I can work with the clerk to find out. But that was already what I was told. And I don't want to be put in the park of under pressure or anything like that. But that was specifically asked. And we can only act on finding information when we request information because we don't have the time. I want to mind everyone. We're doing zoom meetings. We sometimes have a hard time even having a meeting, we got to move these times round and other people have in their meetings. And we are. So the response and everyone can go look for themselves was that it was perfected without it.

1:50:14
So all the ones from places on the third meeting informal calendar, or would you like to adopt it on the third meeting calendar, you can place on 30 informal calendar so that we can get additional information from the coordinate between now and Friday. We don't need any additional information, we have everything. Alright, so you want to you want to leave it on the third reading consent calendar.

1:50:45
As I shared with you, I am going to let all those people who have more authority over this and add to it, I am interested in moving the bill on behalf of the airport because it is an important bill. And we only have one banking service out there. So it would be important, but it's up to the chairperson the rules. Alright. So here are our options, we can move to suspend the rule that that requires us to only reconsider these bills by the next regularly scheduled meeting. Right. So that's the first thing we could do. And if we did that, then the next motion would be a motion to reconsider said bill, right, to move it back to the perfection calendar. And then the third motion after that would be a motion to perfect it with the amendment right? And is that all on the with the attachment and my assumption is that all of that is on the drive now. And then after that, it will just be referred back. That's the cleanest way we can do it at this point. The first motion would be the motion to spell rooms for the purposes of reconsidering the motion to perfect board Bill 64.

1:52:19
I moved to amend the rules but mostly to suspend the rules for the purpose of reconsidering vorbild number 64.

1:52:30
Remove at all one from 19th second and fight all the way down from first Madam Clerk please call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:52:39
out a woman's eyes on one on one evidence. I owe the woman Hubbard. Aye. The woman agasthya Aye alderman called her by the woman rise. Hi, alderman Gunther

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:53:10
aye.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:53:12
alderman Vollmer. Odd woman morn the woman grass. I want to Murphy Hi. Oh the woman Howard. out a woman green. I out of my Oldenburg. Alright. alderman rowdy. Aye. The mid side. All right. The woman Davis. I owe the woman Spencer on demand Mohammed. alderman boy, aye. Cora alderman Ryan. She was the woman Clark Hubbard. I owe the woman boy. I owe the woman Navarro. Aye. President re alderman Bosley to one or more out a woman Spencer. I want the eight iboats

1:54:49
stainable motion all one for the 19th now all one for 19th. Your next motion needs to be you haven't voted on the prevailing side you moved to reconsider the vote. Bill 64 I'd like to make a motion. haven't voted on the preventive vote

1:55:08
on the prevailing side of more bill number 64. to reconsider the vote. Thank you.

1:55:14
It's been moved by all one second. Seconded by the alderman from first. Any discussion? Is there a request for previous roll?

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:55:25
previous rounds?

1:55:28
Now all the one for 19th like to move to perfect for Bill 64.

1:55:36
Absolutely, Mr. President, I'd like to make a motion to move to perfect board bill number 64 move but

1:55:42
all one from the first day discussion, I think alderman from 22nd said made a request for previous row then moved. Motion carries. Now that will be assigned to two rooms and groceries and the attachment is on there. Thank you very much. Any Third Reading consent?

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:56:21
I'm sorry, warble 3243 5060 860-973-8889, as amended 8420 and 92 as amended.

1:56:45
Madam Clerk, please. You know, amended without 8889 8420 and 92 as amended, those are going to be taken up and Grossman's before Friday. They didn't get to those. So read the list without 8889 8420 and 92 as a

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:57:10
boy, Bo 30 240-350-6869 and 73.

1:57:18
All from the 22nd you recognize on the motion for the third reading consent. As the president members of the board I move for adoption of the third reading Consent Calendar, again move along from the 22nd second but on the 10th Any discussion? Madam Clerk, please call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:57:39
Out of one the tie is are the woman Middlebrook? alderman Bosley? Oh. Oh the woman Evans aye. alderwoman Hubbard. Hi. I'm a woman in Grazia. Hi, alderman. coder,

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:58:09
I

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:58:10
owe the woman rise. Aye. alderman Gunther

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:58:15
aye.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:58:17
alderman Vollmer. Aye odd woman mourn. The woman grass. Aye. Odd woman Murphy. By the woman Howard. Hi. The woman green. Aye. alderman outnumbered. alderman rowdy. Hi, alderman time.

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:58:45
All right.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:58:47
The woman Davis the woman Spencer. All right. alderman Mohamad. alderman boy, aye. automatable claro aye. alderman the ryan alderman comm ice these issues that we're having on the one o'clock Hubbard Aye the woman boy odd woman Navarro has an eerie ah odd woman sighs

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  1:59:42
I

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:59:44
have a woman mine. 28 votes.

1:59:50
Aye Opposed stain the motion of alderman from three second and third read and finally pass the aforementioned bills Third Reading Put them in groceries. We're gonna place board Bill 71 as amended on the informal

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  2:00:16
notice. Board Bill 74, sponsored by all the women in Rasiah and ordinance approving the first amendment to soccer stadium redevelopment plan. And the first amendment to master redevelopment agreement and authorizing and direct them to take it up are the actions and approval and execution of other documents whether it's necessary or desirable to carry out and comply with the intent here of

2:00:41
one from the six you recognize on third reading board bill number 74. Thank you, Mr. President.

Christine Ingrassia, Alderwoman ward 6  2:00:51
I move that we third read and finally pass board Bill 74.

2:00:55
Move on all one from the six I obtain this second on that motion? Second. 24th are the elements on the second? Any discussion? I went from first

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  2:01:11
Mr. President, members of board I request a roll call. I have no discussion.

2:01:15
Further discussion Any further discussion? I'll one from the six you're recognized to close Thank you Mr. President. I renew my motion moved by open six second bound from seven that we meet and finally passport bill number 74. Madam Clerk, please

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  2:01:34
call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  2:01:35
out the woman sighs No. One in Middleburg. I Ottoman Bosley? odd woman Evans odd woman Hubbard the woman in Grazia. Aye. admin caught her eye on one to rise. I automate Gunther obama i one in one on one grass. I have a woman Murphy on the woman Howard. I owe the woman green. I have my own enbart alderman rowdy I adamantite. The woman Davis the woman Spencer. Aye. alderman Mohamad. alderman boy. Hi. I'm Eva Claro. alderman the ryan alderman calm. On one o'clock Herbert. Aye. are the one who boy Hi. On the woman the waro aye. President read alderman Bosley. Aye all the women more alderman calm. You see casino spinner. Here. Odd McCall. My Flexi seven ibos and one No. Well,

2:04:32
my vote staying in motion all along for the sixth and third read and finally pass for Bill number 74.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  2:04:42
That's the extent of our reading report of engrossment. Report of enrollment for Bill 3243 5068 6973 and 74

2:05:08
all other businesses sell an open session to fixing signature here to to the end that these might be come up.

2:05:53
We'll dispense with line items 20 through 22 miscellaneous on finished business.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  2:06:01
We have no announcements. Wednesday, July 18 2020 rules we'll have a meeting at 10am via webinar. Thursday, July 16. rules will have a main 10am via webinar and Friday, July 17. full board meeting 10am via webinar

2:06:20
alderman from their tough. Thank you Miss Perez members board with a Friday me I'll be holding our ways and means Thursday morning chinian webinar for board Bill 94. alderman tads

Sharon Tyus, Alderman ward 1  2:06:31
Thank you. For the first I was gonna say for the Thursday meeting. I haven't checked with my committee, so we might change it earlier if it's possible with zoom. If not, it will be 10 o'clock.

2:06:49
further announcements, further announcements on them from the 22nd. You were recognized on the motion to excuse. Mr. President, members of the board. All members are present. Excellent. Recognize on the motion to adjourn. Mr. President, members of board I moved to adjourn until Friday, July the 17th.

2:07:17
Second

2:07:20
move by all on from the 22nd seconded by Dolman from the 2030 believe in a host of other people. All in favor signify by saying aye aye. Aye. Motion carries. We stand adjourned.
